# SVclone_Rmarkdown

Generate plots and tables from the SVclone paper and supplementary material.

### How do I get set up? ##

Install [R](https://www.r-project.org/) and [Rstudio](https://rstudio.com/products/RStudio/).

Install the following R packages:

    install.packages('mcclust')
    install.packages('grid')
    install.packages('gridExtra')
    install.packages('data.table')
    install.packages('plyr')
    install.packages('gtools')
    install.packages('RColorBrewer')
    install.packages('ggplot2')
    install.packages('circlize')
    install.packages('survival'
    install.packages('rms')
    install.packages('ggfortify')
    
    source('https://bioconductor.org/biocLite.R')
    biocLite('GenomicRanges')
    biocLite('biomaRt')

To the same directory as this repository, clone the PCAWG colour palette code:
    
    git clone https://github.com/ICGC-TCGA-PanCancer/pcawg-colour-palette.git
    
The simulation_results.Rmd notebook can now be generated. The included data can be regenerated by running the [SV simu pipeline](https://github.com/mcmero/sv_simu_pipe).

To generate the 001_mixing_results.Rmd notebook, the 001 metastases from doi:10.1038/ncomms7605 must be obtained. Instructions for subsampling and creating the in-silico sample mixtures must be followed as described in the SVclone paper (https://doi.org/10.1101/172486). The following files are required for the original bM and gM samples:

    * variant calls in Mutect's call stats format (put under 001_truth/001*M_SS_mut_merged.call.stats.txt)
    * Battenberg output (subclones files under 001_truth/001*M_subclones.txt)
    * svinfo output from SVclone's count step (under 001_truth/001*M_merged_list_svinfo.txt)
    
For each mixture, bases must be counted at each variant locus, and added to the 001_snv_counts folder, with the following name convention (001bM_p<p1>_001gM_p<p2>_merged_sorted_reheader.basecounts.vcf), where p1 and p2 are the proportions (e.g. 001bM_p0.9_001gM_p0.1_merged_sorted_reheader.basecounts.vcf). SVclone (all steps) and Pyclone must be run on all mixtures, with the output for SVclone under 001_mix_results/001bM_p<p1>_001gM_p<p2> and Pyclone 001_pyclone_out/001bM_p<p1>_001gM_p<p2>. Battenberg must be run on each mixture and the corresponding output (subclones file) should be added to the 001_mix_results directory. 

To generate the notebook containin PCAWG analyses, access to the ICGC/TCGA PCAWG is required. The following files are required (see analyse_select_pcawg.Rmd for file names):

    * PCAWG sample sheet
    * expanded release spreadsheet
    * annotated purities and ploidies
    * clinical donor spreadsheet
    * specimen histology spreadsheet

Obtain consensus copy-number and SNV calls, checking that the system paths correspond to the notebook paths. Obtain SVclone results from the PCAWG jamboree. 
